 Ladies and gentlemen, good morning and welcome to Nobel Forum for the
 announcement of this year's Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine. My name is
 Thomas Perlman and I'm the Secretary General of the Nobel Assembly. I will
 first read the announcement in Swedish followed by English. We will then present
 the background to the prize and open up for questions. Nobel for Shambling and
 The annual Caroleen-Escon Institute,
 the total fee of the local services that are available
 in the CDC under little child's health,
 with COVID-19 and possibly no drug.
 The COVID-19 vaccine was aminute early
 but it was not worth reading.
 It was on the rise of a very long time,
 but it was not a very long time ago.
 It was the first time that the NUTO,
 the other musical events that were ongoing.
 The NUTO has today decided toward the 2023 Nobel Prize
 in Physiology or Medicine jointly to Kathleen Carrico
 and Drew Weisman for their discoveries concerning
 nucleoside-based modifications that enabled
 the development of effective mRNA vaccines
 against COVID-19.
 Here are the two laureates.
 Kathleen Carrico was born in 1955 in Solnock in Hungary.
 She performed her prize-winning studies
 at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia
 in the United States.
 She is currently a professor at Segitz University in Hungary
 and is also an adjunct professor
 at the University of Pennsylvania.
 Drew Weisman was born in 1959 in Lexington, Massachusetts
 in the United States.
 He performed his prize-winning research together
 with Kathleen Carrico at the University of Pennsylvania.
 We're still active as a professor.
 I will now turn to Professor Rickard Sandberg,
 member of the Nobel Committee,
 who will now describe the discovery.
 Please, Rickard.
.
 - In today's interconnected society,
 the risk of new pandemics is greater than ever before.
 When the virus SARS-CoV-2 emerged in late 2019,
 it rapidly spread across the globe
 and developed into the devastating COVID-19 pandemic.
 During the viral infection, the immune system
 recognizes viral components as foreign
 and they induce antiviral immune responses,
 mediated through cells and antibodies.
 However, this takes time.
 And meanwhile, the person can develop serious disease.
 Vaccination strategies have been developed
 with the purpose of inducing antiviral immune responses
 that will protect against future infections.
 For a long time, weekend or inactivated viruses
 have been used as vaccines.
 Vaccination programs have been very successful
 in mitigating many live-threatening diseases,
 including polio, measles, and yellow fever.
 With advances in molecular biology,
 targeted vaccination strategies became feasible
 by isolating genetic information from the virus,
 specific viral proteins could be produced
 and used as vaccines.
 Examples are highly effective vaccines
 against the hepatitis B virus and the human papilloma virus.
 More recently, harmless viral vectors have been used
 to deliver viral DNA fragments into human cells
 to make viral proteins and induce an immune response.
 Examples are the recently developed Ebola vaccines.
 The targeted strategies have the advantage
 of not requiring whole viruses,
 but still they rely on resource-intensive cell culturing
 for vaccine production.
 Researchers have therefore long been attracted
 to the idea of using messenger RNA or mRNA
 for clinical applications where the mRNA is used
 as a template for protein synthesis.
 The production of mRNA does not require
 large-scale cell culturing and future vaccines
 based on mRNA had the potential to become scalable,
 fast, and flexible.
 In fact, major advances were made in the last decades.
 Researchers showed already 40 years ago
 that large amounts of mRNA can be produced without cells,
 for example, using the T7 in vitro transcription system.
 Moreover, progress was being made
 in delivering mRNA into cells
 using different forms of lipid carriers.
 But there was a major obstacle to development
 of mRNA-based clinical applications.
 When in vitro-produced mRNA was delivered into cells,
 it resulted in low protein amounts,
 and additionally, it triggered an inflammatory cytokine response.
 This year's Nobel Laureates,
 Kathleen Carrico and Drew Weismann,
 started working together at the University of Pennsylvania,
 bringing with them highly complementary expertise.
 Carrico had a background in RNA biochemistry
 and a strong vision of RNA-based therapeutics.
 Weismann had a background in immunology,
 working with dendritic cells and their role in the genome.
 And their role in immune surveillance and vaccination.
 It was clear to them that in vitro-produced mRNA
 must somehow differ from the mRNA made in human cells,
 delivering in vitro-produced mRNA into dendritic cells,
 induced the inflammatory cytokine response,
 whereas the delivery of human mRNA did not.
 Using bacterial mRNA, shown on the right side,
 did also trigger the inflammatory response.
 Having explored several potential differences in the mRNA,
 they became interested in nucleoside-based modifications.
 RNA contains four bases,
 often abbreviated as AGU, GNC.
 However, these bases can get further chemically modified
 within our cells.
 It was becoming appreciated that base modifications
 were more prevalent in human RNA compared to RNA in bacteria.
 Could the lack of base modifications in mRNA-produced in vitro
 be the critical factor that leads to inflammatory response?
 In a series of carefully constructed experiments,
 the carbical advisement used the T7 in vitro system
 to produce mRNA with various nucleoside-based modifications.
 Each type of produced mRNA separately introduced into dendritic cells
 while monitoring the TNF alpha levels,
 an important inflammatory cytokine.
 They discovered that mRNA produced with specific base modifications
 to almost completely abolish TNF alpha secretion.
 In particular, modifications to the ureidines highlighted
 on the right side in orange made a large difference.
 One of the most effective modified bases was pseudoridine,
 which is a naturally occurring ureidine modification.
 Whereas in vitro-produced mRNA triggered toal-like receptor activation
 leading to inflammatory cytokines,
 mRNA made with pseudoridine did not.
 So, carbical advisement published their breakthrough discovery in 2005,
 15 years before the COVID-19 pandemic.
 Realizing the importance of their discovery,
 they next demonstrated that base-modified mRNA resulted in higher protein expression
 in target cells, both in cell culture and in animals.
 More protein was made from each delivered mRNA molecule
 and the loriates carefully dissected the cellular pathways involved.
 Caricose advisement made fundamental discoveries
 of the importance of base modifications in mRNA,
 which eliminated a major obstacle to mRNA-based clinical applications.
 Building upon this mRNA technology,
 as well as research by others on stabilized spike protein
 and mRNA delivery using lipid-nonaparticles,
 two highly effective mRNA vaccines against COVID-19
 were developed and approved in record time.
 Importantly, the two mRNA vaccines had complete substitution of ureidines
 for a pseudoridine variant in the sequence coding for the spike protein.
 mRNA vaccines, together with other COVID-19 vaccines,
 have been administered over 13 billion times.
 Together, they have saved millions of lives,
 prevented severe COVID-19, reduced the overall disease burden,
 and enabled societies to open up again.
 The successful mRNA vaccines against COVID-19
 have had a tremendous impact on the interest in mRNA-based technologies.
 mRNA technologies are now being used to develop vaccines against other infections.
 The technology may also be used for therapeutic protein delivery
 and cancer treatment in the hope of further improving human health.
 Here are the two Nobel laureates again.
 So this year's Nobel Prize recognizes their basic science discovery
 that fundamentally changed our understanding of how mRNA interacts with immune system
 and had a major impact on society during the recent pandemic.
 Thank you, Richard.
 So, I would like to open up for questions.
 We'll of course continue with interviews outside,
 but if there are any questions.
 Yes?
 (inaudible)
 Yeah, fortunately, I was able to reach both of them.
 And they were very happy.
 It was wonderful to talk to them.
 This year I actually asked if they were surprised,
 because I suspect that they maybe would not be having received many prizes,
 but Kathleen Carrico explained that she was so overwhelmed
 and also put it in context with her situation as a scientist for many years.
 Ten years ago she told me that she was a Terminator.
 from her current position and had to move to Germany
 for another position and without her family and so forth.
 So it's been a dramatic change in her circumstances
 and she acknowledged that she was great to talk to her
 and very happy.
 Drew Weissman as well, I mean, it was wonderful
 to talk to him and he was overwhelmed
 and enormously grateful for this award.
 So yes, I got hold of them.
 Drew Weissman just a few minutes before coming down here.
 Yes.
 Hello.
 Yeah, I'm Sifitin Akhsasong from Green Post.
 I ask a maybe inconvenient question
 and need your further explanation.
 Do you really think that it's the vaccine
 and this COVID-19 pandemic?
 Thank you.
 With this question, I would like to introduce our panel here.
 So I'll first introduce those who are sitting here
 to the for right is Uleshampe, Professor Uleshampe
 who's vice chair of the Nobel Committee.
 And then it's our chair of the Nobel Committee,
 Professor Gunilla Carlson here at Ulesham
 and I already introduced Professor Rick El-Sandberg.
 Perhaps Gunilla, could you respond to that question?
 Yes, it's of course a very reasonable question.
 As I think hasn't escaped anyone,
 this virus is still circulating
 and there is now many variants that have spread
 and this is of course how viruses behave.
 So once it has achieved this sort of level of spread,
 it's very difficult to stop it completely.
 But what's important here, I think,
 is that vaccines could be developed so fast
 and this was, as we just heard,
 largely due to improvements in the technology
 and this basic discovery that allowed this.
 So I think in terms of saving lives,
 especially in the early phase of the pandemic,
 it was very important.
 Now most people have developed some level of immunity
 as a result of combined exposures to the virus
 and to multiple vaccinations.
 So we're not in, you know,
 this situation is not as dire as it was a few years ago.
 - And I have to say, yes.
 You'll get the microphone is coming here.
 - Thank you.
 This is a sunny life weekly from China.
 So my question is considering the faster proof,
 the faster approval of mRNA based vaccine against COVID-19.
 What impact can this year's price have
 on the authorities to make decision in the future
 for mRNA based vaccine development?
 And another question is,
 do you consider this year's price as a powerful strikeback
 for the anti-vaccine movement
 and also for vaccine has in patient?
 - If will the champion, could you respond to those questions?
 - If I start with the left part of your question,
 does this affect the anti-vaxxers and people who are hesitant?
 And the vexers, I don't know if they will change in any way.
 But I think giving a Nobel Prize
 for this COVID-19 vaccine may make
 hesitant people take the vaccine
 and be sure that it's very efficient and it's safe.
 Now we have 13 million tests being done all over the world
 on people who has not experienced that this is previously.
 And we know it's very safe and very efficient vaccine.
 - And the other question was,
 if it will, or decision toward, will the last authorities?
 - Well, I think if the FDA and EMA will be faster
 in a situation like this,
 I think they made the right decision to build very fast.
 In other cases, it may be wise to build a bit slower, I think.
 - Any additional questions? Here's one, yes.
 - Hello, this is Tysimedia from China.
 And with the mRNA, we don't know the long-term effect yet.
 So do you have any concern over that?
 - Rickard, would you like to respond to that question?
 - Yes, of course, mRNA vaccines have only been given
 for a certain amount of time, which begs your question.
 Having said that, of course, the mRNA vaccine
 that is given is very transient.
 And the fact that 13 billion people have gotten the virus,
 have vaccine virus.
 And I mean, and the amount of side effects noted today,
 it is extremely limited.
 So I don't think it's a major concern.
 Anyone else wanna add to that?
 Or that's fine, I guess?
 - Well, it can't be integrated into the nucleus,
 into the DNA, and that's, you know, a safety precaution.
 The adverse effects that's been noted
 is mostly my carditis, or perin my carditis,
 mainly affecting young males.
 But that normally resolves without any long-term effects.
 - And maybe one could also add that the consequences
 of having COVID-19 can definitely have long-term health
 effects, as we know.
 So one always needs to relate the very minor effects
 of a vaccine to the severe risks
 of actually getting the disease.
 - Yes.
 - Thank you, David Keaton, Associated Press.
 Obviously throughout the pandemic COVID-19 pandemic,
 we saw a very strong anti-vax movement,
 specifically targeting these new technology vaccines.
 As a scientific body, as scientists,
 what must this medical community do
 to try and breach this gap of trust
 between the wider audience, the wider public,
 and the science community to convince people
 that these are indeed safe.
 - Yeah, good day, like with you.
 - I think continuing to communicate how vaccines work.
 And for example, in the case of COVID-19,
 people felt that the vaccines were produced
 or developed very quickly.
 And that's true because there was a huge need for that.
 But what these accelerated clinical trials did
 was not to remove any safety step.
 It was running things in parallel instead of sequentially.
 So there was no compromise in terms of the safety measures.
 And maybe that's not always understood.
 So of course, communicating how it's done
 and all of the decades of basic research
 that's behind this kind of work,
 that's also not always appreciated by the public.
 But I think hopefully this price can help highlight
 some of that because this work hasn't been going on
 since actually since the 1990s.
 - Okay, here is one more, here.
 - Hello, thank you, I'm from Chinese Nordic Time.
 And I'm happy, actually last year I'm sitting here
 and I asked the same question.
 So well, mRNA vaccine will be win the price.
 But this year it gets a well-deserved price.
 So I think everyone's happy with this.
 So the first question is about mRNA vaccine.
 So is there any like other applications for mRNA vaccine
 in other diseases like cancer or like infections diseases
 like this?
 So could you introduce a bit for the audience?
 The second one is about long COVID
 because I think now long COVID impact is really
 important point for the society.
 So could you also let us know?
 - Maybe I'll ask Ganyila to answer the first part
 of the question and Ulla chimp the latter part.
 - Okay, so regarding other applications, yes,
 there's really quite a lot going on right now
 and this is only going to increase most likely
 because we now have this increase of safety data
 on the platform in general.
 But the main other applications I think we're going to see
 is of course many other vaccines against infections,
 particularly perhaps for flu where we need updated vaccines.
 And that is one of the great advantages with this platform
 is that it's flexible and fast.
 So one can update the vaccine if there's new virus variants
 coming which we know happens all the time for flu.
 Other applications that are really sort of,
 there's going to be a lot of exciting findings
 I think coming out and that's already started
 is in terms of therapeutic cancer vaccines.
 So those are not preventative but therapeutic vaccines
 and they can either be done in a personalized manner
 or in a more general manner.
 Cancer is of course a very difficult disease
 and there's in fact many, many different diseases
 but cancer vaccines might very well benefit
 from this platform.
 And thirdly, there is many experiments
 and actually already clinical trials going on
 to deliver therapeutic proteins
 and that can be replacing a defective enzyme
 or you can be introducing an immunomodulatory protein.
 So in that sense, there is quite a lot of work
 that we will see I think apply to a variety of diseases.
 So for the second part of your question, long COVID,
 well first of all vaccination prevents you
 from getting long COVID.
 Then long COVID is a spectrum of different diseases
 with ranging from the myocarditis
 that is usually much more prevalent
 if you get the COVID infection than from the vaccination
 and it's also usually more severe.
 Two long COVID that is something we still don't understand
 the physiology of and there is quite a lot of research
 ongoing on that.
 - I'll show it.
 - I'll just let the bell ring me.
 - Yes, I'd like to ask you Thomas
 about Catalina Caricos personal circumstances.
 You said that she had to leave her job
 and could you just give me some more details
 about what happened to her and what the price means now?
 - I should say that I can only convey
 and she essentially only told me
 what she has been telling in other interviews
 and she's been explaining that her position,
 she never had a tenured position
 at University of Pennsylvania in 2013.
 It appeared from what she's saying
 that it was hard to continue under those circumstances.
 She got the very senior position as vice president
 in a company, BioNTech that later went on
 to produce one of the, make one of the vaccines.
 So she was not out of job in that way
 but away from her family.
 She never received an R01,
 from NIH, which is a clear sign that she struggled and didn't get recognition for the importance
 of her vision.
 Because what was clear was that this is an extraordinary and unusual scientist who was
 very passionate about this idea of mRNA and using it therapeutically.
 And she resisted and attempted to sort of go away from that path and do something maybe
 easier and maybe tell something about the founding situation, also being a female and
 being a foreigner and so forth.
 I'm sure it didn't make things easy.
 She has not been complaining.
 She has also explained how happy she's been.
 And she did do, she was making progress through the years.
 So it was not that she was inactive.
 But she didn't get strong support, not the tenure and the support to build up a big group.
 Instead of course she found very fruitful collaborations on the way.
 Yes.
 Is there anything more?
 I know several -- no, I didn't see that.
 So okay.
 So I think then I know several are eager to have interviews.
 So I think we'll close this part of the press conference right now.
 Thank you so much for coming.
 And apologies for the short delay in the beginning.
 Thank you.
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
 [ Inaudible ]
